So that's our first improvement to this is
that we improved our lookup by storing and
using this index.
I now want to switch attention to
evaluating the check function,
our recursive implementation
of the check function.
We are absolutely still
going to use recursion here.
But the fundamental question I
want us to ask ourselves is,
do we really have to keep recursing
over the entire elements list?
Is there something that we could recurse
over that would be much smaller?
Effectively, what this technique
is going to work out to do,
we are going to pre-process our
data set or our problem set.
That's another one of these techniques
that you end up seeing is like,
if I did an initial pass through some
stuff and figured some things out,
and then I had a new set of data
to work on from that first path.
My second pass through might
be a lot more efficient.
>> The smallest set you have in any
individual execution of that function is
your input work.
And the pairs that make up your input
word, you have at most a 2-arity pair,
because that is the maximum length of
a tuple in your periodic table data set.
So you are looking at pairwise
combinations, ordered pairwise
combinations So if we are looking at
input word, it would be I-N-N-P-P-U-U-T.
Those are your,
that is your max input set, is the i,
j pairs that you iterate through.
>> True,
except there's more complication to it,
which is we also have the single letters,
there's not just pairs.
>> Yes, you're right.
>> You are right.
>> I am handling that after we have
failures of 2-arities, that's my,
I didn't say that, but yes, you are right.
>> You are correct.
So to put this in terms
that are going to map
to the code that I'm about to write for
you,
what we effectively can do is look at
any given word like the word yucky.
And say that there
are only a fixed number of
possible elements that
could ever match for us.
We don't know whether and in what order
and whether they will actually match up,
but we can actually take that list of 118.
And drastically reduce it to a list
of candidate symbols that could only
possibly match.
Because there's a whole bunch of symbols
that could never possibly match.
And in our current algorithm,
we are reconsulting
all of those every single time,
which is to say, just like I said earlier.
We are learning some information which is
to say we learned that there was a non
match and we forgot that information.
And then we relearned it over, and over,
and over, and
over again let's not do that.
Let's find the list of
possible candidates,
the attendee here was using much more
formal language than I'm gonna use,
but let's find all of the candidates.
That are two letter or
one letter candidates that could possibly
be in our word, and when we recurse,
we're gonna only consider those candidates
and not the whole element list.
Does everybody see why that's gonna
drastically reduce the amount of work?
And not only the amount of work,
but really to an order of
magnitude in big O terms,
it's going to be less work.
It'll actually move the needle in
terms of our work complexity okay,
so I'm going to write us
a function called find candidates
And it will probably be a very
similar translation of what
the attendee was just describing here,
which is we're going to
create two lists that we're going
to then concatenate together.
The list of all the single letter
symbols that could be an R word, and
a list of all the two letter symbols
that could possibly be an R word.
As he described the, I-N,
the N-P, the P-U, and the U-T,
those are the two letter ones
that could possibly be an R word.
We're going to find all those different
candidates and the order in which we can
catenate them together, is going to create
that preference that we have expressed.
Which is that we want
the shortest outcome we want to
spell the word with
the fewest number of symbols.
If we change the order of candidates,
we would end up with a different response.
Everybody follow me, generally?
Sounds more complicated than it is,
so let's just write some code.
I'm gonna set myself up
with a couple of arrays.
Now on the side note, I often get asked by
people somebody may ask why you use VARs?
Because the VAR keyword is
still superior for some tasks,
despite what you've been told
that you should only use const.
Var, let and occasionally const,
are all three useful
in a program and
I've got a multiple hours long dialogue
on that again in my deep
JavaScript Foundations course.
But you'll notice that I use let
in places and I use var in places,
that's on purpose, it's not just because
I'm trying to keep rerunning the test.
Okay, so what I'm doing here
is I'm going to go through
The input word one letter at a time, and
I'm going to use the really old school for
loop way of doing this instead of a for
of loop because I also want the indexes.
I could have done a for
of loop with the entries and
I've done that in other places.
But here I'm gonna go ahead and do a for
of loop so that I have that i index and
it's gonna allow me to step
through at different levels.
Okay, so the first thing is
that we want to collect this
is the most obvious is that we wanna
collect all the one letter candidates.
How are we going to do that?
We're going to say if our
input word is in symbols,
so this is saying does
that single character
appear as a property
in the symbols object?
We could have done symbols.jason
property if you like, but
I like the IN operator here
in terms of its semantics.
We're saying, is that there And, is it
not the case that one letter symbols?
Already has it.
I'm gonna split this onto two lines,
because it's a little easier to read here.
So our condition is,
is the letter that we're consulting
in our input word does it exist as
a single letter symbol yes or no?
If it does exist,
have we not already found it?
Because I don't want to unnecessarily
stick it into that array.
Now want to pause for a moment does
anybody spot a potential sub optimal or
less efficiency with
what I just described?
I made a deliberate choice here but there
are some consequences to the deliberate
choice does anybody spot
where they might be?
>> We are using, well, and this might not
be the one you're thinking of, but we're
using NOT on line 129, which if you have
a very large set you're checking against.
Is going to be incredibly expensive
because it's going to have to exhaust
the set every time.
To run that operation, you would
probably want to optimize it by matching
explicitly there instead of
using the NOT operator, but
that's getting really pedantic and
I think I'm missing here.
>> I think you're in the right direction,
but not quite on it, so
let me say it this way,
I'm effectively checking to see whether or
not it's unique in that array, right?
Did I have a data structure
that we talked about earlier
today in our workshop whose job it is to
keep track of things that are unique sets?
So if I just tried to stick it into a set,
and then check whether it was in the set,
the set data structure would make sure
that I didn't reinsert it a second time.
So that could avoid my condition here, so
you might ask, well,
why don't you just use a set?
I want to see if anybody can
spot why I don't use a set here.
It's subtle, but it's important, yes?
>> Because it doesn't have indexes.
>> That's not quite it, no, yes Mark.
>> This would cost a lot of
memory work because we don't have
a unique reference to the symbol.
>> No that's not so, I think I kind of see
where that comment is coming from, but
that's something that we should leave
to the JavaScript engine anyway.
That's at a lower layer of optimization,
yes,
here
>> Well,
in the example yucky we
needed the Y twice, right?
>> We did need the Y twice,
but that's okay,
because we're just
constructing candidates here.
We're not constructing the actual answer,
good thinking you are right, yes?
>> Several people said you need order.
>> Yes, thank you I'm glad,
sets are un ordered,
and the order here matters, right?
Remember I said that the order that we put
these things in, is going to matter in
terms of what outcome we get,
whether we get the longer than not.
Within each one,
the order doesn't super matter, but
it is kind of important, but moreover,
the set is the wrong data
structure when order matters.
If we're going to discover these in order,
and
we're going to concatenate them in order,
we should not confuse the reader of this
code by using an unordered data structure.
Even if it worked, it would create
the wrong communication in this code.
Since order matters here,
I'm going to stick with the array and
do the array includes.
One other small subtle
thing that is really
a JavaScriptism rather than
an algorithm sort of thing.
If I constructed these as two sets, and
I then wanted to iterate over them,
the iteration over
a set is a more expensive operation
in one of two possible ways.
I can either render the set
out to an ordered array, and
the order of the array that
comes out of the set is a,
predefined in the specification
how it knows what order to do.
But there is a specification defined
ordering if you enumerate a set.
I could render that out to an array, or I
could construct an iterator over the set.
Either one of those is going to create
more memory pressure versus just
keeping these two arrays around and
using them.
So there is a trade off that I'm making
here, which is to say, the includes
method does need to do a lookup that's not
quite as efficient as a set Has would be.
But we're only gonna have a maximum of
like a dozen maybe two dozen candidates.
If you think about it
there's only 118 symbols so
we're never gonna have any more than
a few dozen candidates in any word
So I make the determination that for both
code readability, communication, and for
performance, memory performance reasons.
The array was the right choice,
but I just wanted you to see
that there's a choice being made
here versus the set choice.
And in other cases, the set might
have been the right data structure.
Okay, so now that we have checked
to see if we can stick it in,
then we just simply.
Push it in.
That's collected the one word candidates
we now need to also collect the two word
candidates.
Sorry, two letter candidates.
Doing it in the same
loop as we go through,
we can collect those
two letter candidates.
So we're gonna say if i is less than or
equal to,
this is just a little bit of math
to let me know that I need to stop.
One before the end rather than at the end.
Because I can't get
a two letter candidate,
starting at the last letter of the word,
I can only get a two letter candidate,
at the next to last letter of the word.
I'll go ahead and get that so I don't
have to just keep re-slicing it over and
over, so we'll say slice starting at i and
going to i + 2 and
the slices Non-inclusive on the end.
So, it goes from i, to i + 1,
and then when it gets to i + 2,
it does not include it so,
this is only getting those two characters.
I'm going to say if two in symbols
same kind of if statement is above.
If two that is those two
characters in the Word, or
as the smarter gentleman
said the pairwise here.
If the two N symbols and
this is not already something
that we put into the two
letter symbols array
Includes Two
letter symbols.push two.
So one loop through our input word which
is that most what again is gonna be
like 5,10 15 characters that somebody
is going to type at most 5 or
10 or 15 characters that
they're going to loop through.
And we're going to collect the one
letter symbol candidates and
the two letter symbol candidates as we go.
We've got them in two separate arrays and
we want to return one final
array with all of them.
And this is where the order
matters because we want to
order the two letter symbols first,
and then the one letter symbols.
That is to say that as our
algorithm progresses and
recurses over this list of candidates,
we want it to prefer a two letter
option first over a one letter option.